okay so let's start with the idea of
loneliness so like how do we understand
if you feel emotionally isolated
or lonely like even if you know people
like what's going on there
the first thing to understand is if
you're around people and you feel
lonely it's because the part of you that
connects to them
is not the real you it's the mask that
you put on
right that's why you feel disconnected
because there are all these people
around
but they don't actually get to see the
real you they get to see a version of
you
and so how can you feel connected when
all you show people
is a piece of who you are and so then
that begets the question
why do we have masks on in the first
place
right why do we like adopt this system
of like putting on a particular mask
and that's because for some reason or
another we're afraid of what people will
do
if we don't have the mask the mask
comes because we lack confidence in who
we are as a person
there's something on the inside that i
don't want people to see
and the solution here is not like oh go
get confident man you're beautiful on
the inside
no the reason that you lack confidence
in who you are on the inside
is because that's what you've learned
it's not like you just need to get
confident it's because something
happened
which taught you very clearly that when
people see
what's on the inside it's not worth
associating with
and that's why you put on the mask and
then you can discover something really
really dangerous
which is that when you put on the mask
things get better for you
right because when you hide who you are
on the inside people treat you better
you become
nicer sometimes you become a doormat
you do things for other people you're
always down for this
you're a lot of fun you borrow you let
people borrow money and you don't ask
for it back
you become all kinds of things to make
the world
like you and to make the world an easier
place to navigate
and then why would you want to be what
you are on the inside where people like
aren't your friend
when you can be what they like
and then they are your friend and so we
discover that the mask
actually has a lot of value it actually
helps us move forward
in a way that you know being your
authentic self
doesn't but even though it gives you
kind of lots of friends and you can hang
out with people and you get invited to
places and stuff like that
you're not letting people see who you
are on the inside so you're emotionally
isolating yourself
the more successful the mask is the more
alone you feel
and that's the damnedest thing because
the mask is doing exactly what it's
supposed to do
it's supposed to get you invited to
places and people texting you
and stuff like that you think it's the
antidote to loneliness because it's
increasing the number of interactions
and yet you become more and more
isolated
so what do you do about that it's hard
right so we can start with this idea
like oh you should accept yourself for
who you truly are bro
and live a life of authenticity and like
all this other you know like
feel good positive kind of stuff
but practically how do you do that the
first thing
is to understand that there is a part of
you that you were afraid of people
seeing
and it's going to be hard but you
actually have to like show it to some
people
right you should be your authentic self
and
recognize that as you try to be your
authentic self there's going to be a
part of your mind that rebels
and says if you say this or you open
your mouth or you be
like you know who you really are if you
tell a friend of yours that hey it kind
of pisses you off that
you pick them you drop them off at the
airport all the time when they have a
flight but they never drop you off
because it could rupture your
relationship
but it's authentic and you have to
recognize that
as you start to become your authentic
self
you can get rejected
and you have to have the courage to face
that you have to acknowledge that okay
this is going to be terrifying
but i'm going to do it you have to be
willing to lose
because the mask is about playing a game
that you can't lose
and by playing the game that you can't
lose you end up never winning
because you're not putting it on the
table you're not actually risking
anything
and so something magical happens it's
hard don't get me wrong
so notice all those things like when you
start to you know say something that
maybe people will rob the wrong way
or i mean i'm not telling you guys to go
out and be an [ __ ] but like the other
thing that could happen is like maybe
you want to be vulnerable
right you can say hey like i'm afraid
that
i'm gonna be alone forever and when you
disclose
that kind of thing you're going to feel
pathetic
and so when you try you recognize that
there's going to be a part of you that's
like don't take don't take off the mask
don't take off the mask people won't
like what they see
and this is the really damn annoying
thing
is that your impression that they don't
like what they
are gonna see is actually like sort of
an
incomplete picture and somewhat false
because that's the bottled up emotion
that's the sense
of lack of value that you have in the
first place in yourself which causes you
to misjudge
it's the insecurity itself that's
speaking
there's a difference between people not
liking you and you believing that people
aren't gonna like you
and that belief starts to control your
actions and the more that you put on the
mask
the less that you let people see the
more that belief gets reinforced
because then what are you showing
yourself you're showing yourself oh by
the way
when i don't be my real self people like
me a lot
therefore my real self isn't worth
liking because they like my false self
so every day that you put on the mask
you reinforce this idea that you're not
worth liking
because they love the mask why would
they like you
the thing is though it's all built on a
house of cards it's usually built on
one experience or a handful of
experiences what we call
some scars so these are balls of
undigested emotion they're rejections or
experiences of hurt
where like you felt like you were not a
good person or that people like you know
made you feel like you're not worth it
and then you carry that basic thing with
you and then it starts to grow in your
mind
and every day that you put on the mask
it grows bigger and bigger and bigger
and bigger
but something magical will happen if you
start to take off the mask little by
little
you know find the right place find the
right person try to take off the mask
and see what happens
the more you take it off and you'll be
amazed because actually people
aren't going to reject you the way that
you think they are
and then you're going to be like oh
actually i don't have to wear the mask
all the time you're going to feel
connected
you're going to open up a little bit
more you're going to open up a little
bit more
and then you'll start to realize that
what i am on the inside may not be
perfect but it doesn't have to be
rejected
and then you can start to turn things
around because if we think about
confidence in yourself we think about
security and who you
are security isn't about being perfect
right security is about being flawed and
accepted anyway
that's what it means to be secure in
yourself because no one's perfect
this is the tricky thing about
insecurity is that there are a lot of
people out there who try to fix their
insecurity with perfection
so what they do is they like i'm
insecure that i don't look good so i'm
gonna
dress very very carefully and if i can
dress perfectly then people are gonna
think that like i'm
an okay looking dude and that's a real
dangerous thing because if i dress
perfectly and i go out
and then like no one's like hey man
you're ugly then i start to think
that i have to dress this way in order
to be accepted
and what it actually does is feed the
insecurity
because then i begin to think that
people's acceptance of me
is dependent on how i dress and there
and is the nature of insecurity that's
someone who's insecure
they have to dress a certain way
otherwise they're not worth anything
crazy so how do you start you start by
noticing the insecurity
you start by noticing the lack of value
you start by noticing that there is a
part of yourself that is terrified to
let other people see
that's the beginning then what you do is
you put your toes in the water
if you see what happens it takes a lot
of courage but you have to take the mask
off a little bit by loop
and then something crazy is going to
happen some people are going to reject
you
and some people are going to accept you
and the more you
let people accept you because right now
the problem is that you're not even
letting people accept you
the only opportunity you're giving the
rest of the world is to accept a version
of yourself
a false version of yourself and so how
can you ever gain security
you've got to give them a shot and the
more that you give people the
opportunity to accept you
the greater the chances are that you
will actually be accepted
i know it sounds like rocket science
it's crazy
giving people a chance to accept you is
how you get accepted
but that requires courage it requires
difficulty and it requires noticing
so if you feel emotionally isolated
recognize that it is the very things
that you
use to protect yourself that are the
things that are
isolating you here you are building a
ton of walls so that people don't see
the real you
and you're crying because you're on the
inside all alone
the very solutions that you create to
fix your problems are the problems
themselves
and the more that you understand this
the more free you'll be
the more in control you will be because
what is freedom it's about
i can't control what other people like
me like you're right but it's sort of
like you're
you're giving in to like that paradigm
and so if you want to be in control of
your life
take a chance control isn't about
outcomes it's about choices
right you can't control what happens
when you ask someone out
but when you never ask anyone out you
feel out of control in your life
and what you try to do is control for
perfection you try to make them say yes
and all that thing just feeds into your
insecurity
so i hope that was helpful it's kind of
bizarre
there's a lot there and you know work on
yourselves
the last thing is that that meditation
practice that we did can be really
really helpful at helping you understand
you know what is you and what is the
outside world and to learn to separate
those two things
because a lot of insecurity comes when
someone looks at something in the
outside world
and attributes it to their sense of self
i asked one person out they said no
therefore i am an incel and i will
always be alone
you never bother to learn that they're
like actually not interested in you
because they're attracted to a different
gender but that somehow becomes your
fault
do you take the outside world and you
bring it into yourself
and you are the responsible agent so the
meditation practice
of focusing on the object of your senses
versus the sense of yourself
helps you navigate that continuum
between yourself and the outside world
and the more you begin to realize that
the more you'll
stop attributing things that are not
your fault
to yourself if you guys want help with
all this stuff
you know we have um that's what our
coaches are there for
so i think you guys can you know learn
these principles and stuff do the
meditation we hope it helps
if you guys want some help if you want
some support if you want some
assistance you're welcome to work with
our coaches
they try to help you guys understand
these kinds of patterns and stuff about
yourself
if you guys are interested you can also
sign up for groups so the cool thing
about groups is that you're going to be
working on
you guys will be surprised at how much
you share with other people and i know
that a lot of people think that
oh like you know i have my own problems
and like i won't be able to relate with
to anyone or a lot of times the reason
people don't sign up for groups is
because they
they're afraid they're going to bring
the group down or that they
won't mesh with the group and the cool
thing about groups is that the whole
reason that like healthy gamer is a
thing is because
a conversation with one person actually
applies to thousands of other people
and so you guys will be surprised at how
much you share with other people and the
fact that you
share it is in and of itself incredibly
powerful
because when you get into a group of
seven other people who feel emotionally
isolated and you guys all talk about
how emotionally isolated you are
i don't know if you guys get this but
like that's a very powerful antidote to
emotional isolation
so check out our coaching program if you
guys are looking for a little bit of
help